Tutorial - Vue analytics (#7535)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/tutorials/vue-analytics.md

---
title: How to set up analytics in Vue with PostHog
date: 2024-01-16
author: ["lior-neu-ner"]

> tags: ['experimentation']

Reviewer: Different tags needed here?
```suggestion
tags: ['product analytics']
```

```bash
npm install vue-router@4
```

In your `src` directory, create a new folder `router` and then a new file `index.js`:

```bash
cd ./src
mkdir router
cd router 
touch index.js
```

In `router/index.js`, import the components and define the routes:

```js file=router/index.js
import { createRouter, createWebHistory } from 'vue-router'
import HomePage from '../components/HomePage.vue'
import AboutPage from '../components/AboutPage.vue'

const routes = [
  {
    path: '/',
    name: 'HomePage',
    component: HomePage
  },
  {
    path: '/about',
    name: 'AboutPage',
    component: AboutPage
  }
]

const router = createRouter({
  history: createWebHistory(),
  routes
})

export default router
```

Then, update your `App.vue` to use the router-view. Replace the contents of this file with:

```vue file=App.vue
<template>
  <router-view></router-view>
</template>

<script>
export default {
  name: 'App'
}
</script>
```

Finally, set up `main.js` to use the router:

```js file=main.js
import { createApp } from 'vue'
import App from './App.vue'
import router from './router'

createApp(App).use(router).mount('#app')
```

> The basic setup is now complete. Run `npm run serve` to see your app.

Reviewer: If they are following along exactly, their command line will be in `src` at this point and not able to run this.

Author: eh, you're right, but I think our users will be knowledgable enough to know where to run npm run serve from

![Basic Vue app](../images/tutorials/vue-analytics/basic-app.png)

## Adding PostHog

> This tutorial shows how to integrate PostHog with `Vue 3`. If you're using `Vue 2`, see [our Vue docs](/docs/libraries/vue-js) for how to integrate PostHog.

> With our app set up, it’s time to install and set up PostHog. If you don't have a PostHog instance, you can [sign up for free](https://app.posthog.com/signup). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With our app set up, it’s time to install and set up PostHog. If you don't have a PostHog instance, you can [sign up for free](https://us.posthog.com/signup). 
```

> First install `posthog-js` .

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First install `posthog-js`.
```

```bash
mkdir plugins
cd plugins 
touch posthog.js
```

Add the following code to your `posthog.js` file:

```js file=plugins/posthog.js
import posthog from "posthog-js";

export default {
  install(app) {
    app.config.globalProperties.$posthog = posthog.init(
      "<ph_project_api_key>",
      {
        api_host: "<ph_instance_address>",
      }
    );
  },
};
```

Replace `<ph_project_api_key>` and `<ph_instance_address>` with your your PostHog API key and host. You can find these in your [project settings](https://app.posthog.com/settings/project).

Finally, activate your plugin in `main.js`:

```js file=main.js
import { createApp } from 'vue'
import App from './App.vue'
import router from './router'
import posthogPlugin from '../plugins/posthog';

createApp(App)
.use(posthogPlugin)
.use(router)
.mount('#app');
```

Once you’ve done this, reload your app and click the buttons a few times. You should see events appearing in the [PostHog events explorer](https://app.posthog.com/events).

<ProductScreenshot
  imageLight={EventsLight} 
  imageDark={EventsDark} 
  alt="Events in PostHog" 
  classes="rounded"
/>

## Capturing pageviews

> You might notice that moving between pages only captures a single pageview event. This is because PostHog only captures pageview events when [page load](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/load_event) is fired. Since Vue creates a single-page app, this only happens once, and the Vue router handles subsequent page changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You might notice that moving between pages only captures a single pageview event. This is because PostHog only captures pageview events when a [page load](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/load_event) is fired. Since Vue creates a single-page app, this only happens once, and the Vue router handles subsequent page changes.
```

If we want to capture every route change, we must write code to capture pageviews that integrates with the router.

In `router/index.js`, set up PostHog to capture pageviews in the `router.afterEach` function. Additionally, you can use `nextTick` so that the capture event fires only after the page is mounted.

```js router/index.js
import { createRouter, createWebHistory } from 'vue-router'
import { nextTick } from 'vue';

> 
> // rest of your code

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// ...rest of your imports and code
```

router.afterEach((to, from, failure) => {

>   if (!failure && router.app) {

Reviewer: router.app is undefined for me here, so this isn't running

Author: Yikes. This happened for me too now, and not sure how I even got to it work in the first place 🤷🏻‍♂️ I've updated the code now with a new approach. Thanks for catching for this

    const posthog = router.app.config.globalProperties.$posthog;
    nextTick(() => {

>       posthog.capture('$pageview', { path: to.path });

Author: ```suggestion
      posthog.capture('$pageview', { path: to.fullPath });
```

```js file=plugins/posthog.js
import posthog from "posthog-js";

export default {
  install(app) {
    app.config.globalProperties.$posthog = posthog.init(
      "<ph_project_api_key>",
      {
        api_host: "<ph_instance_address>",
        capture_pageview: false
      }
    );
  },
};
```

## Capturing custom events

Beyond pageviews, there might be more events you want to capture. To do this, you can capture custom events with PostHog. To showcase this, we add a button to the home page and capture a custom event whenever it is clicked. 

To do this, update the code in `HomePage.vue`:

```vue file=HomePage.vue
<template>
  <div>
    <h1>Home</h1>
    <router-link to="/about">Go to About</router-link>
    <button @click="captureCustomEvent">Click Me</button>
  </div>
</template>

<script>
export default {
  name: 'HomePage',
  methods: {
    captureCustomEvent() {
      this.$posthog.capture('home_button_clicked', {
        'user_name': 'Max the Hedgehog' 
      });
    }
  }
}
</script>
```

> Now when you click the button, PostHog captures the custom `home_button_clicked` event. Notice that we also added a property `user_name` to the event. This is helpful for filtering events in the PostHog dashboard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now when you click the button, PostHog captures the custom `home_button_clicked` event. Notice that we also added a property `user_name` to the event. This is helpful for filtering events in PostHog.
```

---

> title: How to set up analytics in Vue with PostHog

Reviewer: Should we include "with PostHog"  in the titie? We don't for others and I don't think it adds much (people will already see they are going to posthog.com).

Author: hmm yeah I see what you mean. I'll remove this in a different PR. I've done it for a bunch of them so will remove them all at once

> date: 2024-01-16

Author: ```suggestion
date: 2024-01-18
```

author: ["lior-neu-ner"]
tags: ['product analytics']
---

import { ProductScreenshot } from 'components/ProductScreenshot'
import EventsLight from '../images/tutorials/vue-surveys/events-light.png'
import EventsDark from '../images/tutorials/vue-surveys/events-dark.png'

> [Product analytics](/product-analytics) enable you to gather and analyze data about how users interact with your Vue.js app. To show you how to set up analytics, in this tutorial we create a basic Vue app, add PostHog, and show you have to capture pageviews and custom events.

Reviewer: avoiding saying show you twice
```suggestion
[Product analytics](/product-analytics) enable you to gather and analyze data about how users interact with your Vue.js app. To show you how to set up analytics, in this tutorial we create a basic Vue app, add PostHog, and use it to capture pageviews and custom events.
```

```js main.js
import { createApp, nextTick } from 'vue'
import App from './App.vue'
import router from './router'
import posthogPlugin from '../plugins/posthog';

const app = createApp(App);
app.use(posthogPlugin)
.use(router)
.mount('#app');

router.afterEach((to, from, failure) => {
  if (!failure) {
    nextTick(() => {
      app.config.globalProperties.$posthog.capture('$pageview', { path: to.fullPath });
    });
  }
});
```

Now, every time a user moves between pages, PostHog captures a `$pageview` event, not just the first page load.

Lastly, go back to `plugins/posthog.js` and make sure to set `capture_pageview` in the PostHog initialization config to `false`. This turns off autocaptured pageviews and ensures you won’t double-capture pageviews on the first load.

```js file=plugins/posthog.js
import posthog from "posthog-js";

export default {
  install(app) {
    app.config.globalProperties.$posthog = posthog.init(
      "<ph_project_api_key>",
      {
        api_host: "<ph_instance_address>",
        capture_pageview: false
      }
    );
  },
};
```

## Capturing custom events

> Beyond pageviews, there might be more events you want to capture. To do this, you can capture custom events with PostHog. To showcase this, we add a button to the home page and capture a custom event whenever it is clicked. 
> 
> To do this, update the code in `HomePage.vue`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Beyond pageviews, there might be more events you want to capture. To do this, you can capture custom events with PostHog. 

To showcase this, update the code in `HomePage.vue` with a button and `captureCustomEvent` method that uses PostHog to capture a `home_button_clicked` event:
```
